Accounts
Accounts Overview
RBC Vantage
Explore Account Types
Chequing Accounts
Cross-Border Banking
Savings Account
Youth and Student Banking
Earn More with RBC
Value Program
Chequing Products
Advantage Banking
Advantage Banking for Students
Day to Day Banking
Signature No Limit Banking
VIP Banking
US Personal Banking
Savings Products
High Interest eSavings
Enhanced Savings
Day to Day Savings
US Savings
Leo’s Young Savers Account
Tools & Resources
Account Selector Tool
Compare Chequing Accounts
Compare Saving Accounts
Customer Service
Managing Your Bank Account
Wire Transfer
International Money Transfer
Virtual Visa Debit
Direct Deposit
Additional Account Services
Get the new Apple Watch with an eligible RBC bank account
Credit Cards
Credit Cards Overview
View All Credit Cards
Travel Cards
Rewards Cards
Cash Back Cards
Low Interest Cards
No Annual Fee Cards
Student Cards
Business Cards
Tools & Resources
Help me Choose a Credit Card
Company Credit Cards
Credit Card Cash Back Calculator
Frequently Asked Questions
Cards Advice: How Do I…
Improve my credit score
Reduce my credit card interest
Pay my credit card bill
Manage expenses with credit cards
Protect from credit card fraud
I’m a Cardholder
Activate My Card
Cardholder Resources
Report Lost or Stolen Credit Card
Add an Additional User
Benefit Guides and Insurance Documents
Optional Add-On Services
Three Simple Ways to Keep your Money Safe from Fraud and Scams
Mortgages
Mortgages Overview
Mortgage Rates
Mortgage Products
Manage Your Mortgage
Special Mortgage Offers
Connect with a Mortgage Specialist
Get Pre-Qualified in 60 Seconds
Your Next Move
Buy Your First Home
Buying Your Next Home
Renovate Your Home
Buying an Investment Property
Buying a Vacation Home
Renew Your Mortgage
Switch Your Mortgage to RBC
Refinance Your Mortgage
Tools & Resources
Mortgage Payment Calculator
Home Value Estimator
Neighbourhood Explorer
Rent or Buy Calculator
All Mortgage Tools & Calculators
RBC Homebuyer Advantage
Limited Time Offer: Get up to $3,500 and 55,000 Avion points, only with an eligible RBC mortgage.*
Personal Loans
Loans Overview
Personal Loans
Lines of Credit
Student Lines of Credit
Home Improvement Loans
RRSP Loans
Car Loans & Vehicle Solutions
Car Loans Overview
Car Loans Through a Dealer
Loans for Electric Vehicles
Financing Your Boat or RV
Business Vehicle Solutions
Buying Your First Vehicle
Buying Your Next Vehicle
Managing Your Car Loan
Car Loan Prequalify Calculator
Tools & Calculators
My Auto Affordability Tool
Car Loan Calculator
RV & Marine Locator
Loan Payment Calculator
Debt Consolidation Calculator
Compare Lines of Credit & Loans
Pay Down Debt & Improve Cash Flow
Loan Calculators
Get Pre-Qualified for an RBC Automotive Loan Today
Investments
Savings and Investments Overview
Popular Accounts & Products1
Tax-Free Savings – TFSA
Retirement Savings – RRSP
First Home Savings – FHSA
Education Savings – RESP
Guaranteed Investment Certificate – GICs
Mutual Funds
Exchange-Traded Funds – ETFs
Stocks and Bonds (RBC Direct Investing)
ESG Investing
All Investments Accounts and Products
Ways to Invest
With Access to an Advisor
Low-Efffort, Automatic Investing (RBC InvestEase)
Trade and Invest Yourself (RBC Direct Investing)
Purchase Investments
Advice and Planning
MyAdvisor
How to Save and Invest Guides
Retirement Planning
Financial Planning (RBC Financial Planning)
Customized Wealth Planning (RBC Wealth Management)
Resources and Tools
All Investment Tools & Calculators
TFSA Calculator
RRSP Calculator
GIC Selector
Compare GICs
Retirement Budget Calculator
GIC Rates
FAQs
Get $100 when you open and fund your first RBC TFSA or RRSP
1Products and services may be offered by Royal Bank of Canada or by a separate corporate entity affiliated with Royal Bank of Canada, including but not limited to Royal Mutual Funds Inc., RBC Direct Investing Inc. (Member–Canadian Investor Protection Fund), RBC InvestEase Inc., RBC Global Asset Management Inc., Royal Trust Company or The Royal Trust Corporation of Canada
Rewards
Rewards Overview
Avion Rewards Credit Cards
Pay with Points
Offers
RBC Petro-Canada
Rewards Credit Cards
Popular Rewards Cards
RBC Avion Visa Infinite
RBC ION Visa
RBC Avion Visa Infinite Privilege
RBC ION+ Visa
What’s New
View Offers
#LifeMatters: Bryan Baeumler on Choosing a Path Less Travelled
Ways to Bank
Ways to Bank Overview
Online Banking
ATM, Branch, & Telephone Banking
RBC Digital Banking Security Guarantee
Mobile Banking apps
RBC Mobile
Avion Rewards
Pay With Your Mobile
RBC Launch
Learn How To…
Reset Your Password
View or Print Void Cheque
Add or Remove a Payee
Setup Direct Deposit
Transfer Money Between Accounts
View or Print Your Tax Documents
View All Tutorials
Insurance
Insurance Overview
Creditor Insurance
Creditor Insurance Overview
HomeProtector Insurance
LoanProtector Insurance
BalanceProtector Insurance
Travel Insurance
Travel Insurance Overview
Travel Insurance Packages
Travel Medical Insurance
Trip Cancellation and Interruption Insurance
Get a Quote
Tools & Resources
Creditor Protection Selector
HomeProtector Insurance Quote
LoanProtector Insurance Quote
Make a Travel Insurance Claim
Newcomers
Newcomers Overview
Banking
Credit Cards
Mortgages
Car Loans
Investing
The RBC Newcomer Advantage
Advice by Visa Status
Permanent Resident
International Student
Business Owner/Entrepreneur
Foreign Worker
Tools & Resources
What Our Partners Can Offer You
How Banking Works in Canada
Building a Credit History in Canada
Buying Your First Home in Canada Checklist
Buying Your First Car in Canada Checklist
Retirement Planning
Retirement Overview
I’m Saving and Planning
I’m Getting Close
I am Already Retired
Retirement FAQ
Tools and Resources
Retirement Budget Calculator
Test Your Retirement Knowledge
Will and Estate Planning
What is CPP and QPP?
Tailored Products & Offers
Retirement Savings – RRSP
Retirement Income Fund – RRIF
My Advisor
Student Solutions
Student Hub
Student Bank Accounts
Student Credit Cards
Student Loans
Popular Accounts
RBC Advantage Banking for Students
RBC High Interest eSavings
RBC Leo’s Young Savers Account
Build Your Career
Future Launch
Gain New Skills
Grow Your Network
Work Experience
Beyond Banking
Personal Beyond Banking
Business Beyond Banking
Arrive: For Newcomers to Canada
Learn More About Arrive
Sustainable Finance Solutions
Sustainable Finance Solutions Overview
Switch to Electronic Statements
Savings & Investments
ESG Investing
Travel & Commuting
Electric Car Financing
Electric Car Cost Calculator
Electric Car Guide
Electric Car Rebates
Home
Home Energy Rebates
Many RBC Advisors were once newcomers and have been through the newcomer journey themselves. We’re here to provide the advice, support, and community connection you need for your new beginning in Canada.
Unbiased advicethat goes beyond banking, based on advisors’ own experiences settling into Canada
Introductions to community partnersthat could help you with housing, career, childcare, and mentorship services
Convenient consultationstailored to your schedule, either virtually or in person, to accommodate your needs
Personalized supportin your preferred language
No-Monthly-Fee Bankingfor a year7with an eligible chequing account
You can get up to a $15,000 credit card limit9—no credit history required
$0 Transfer Fees18for International Money Transfers. Send money to almost any country in the world, including India, China, and the Philippines
Free Small Safety Deposit Boxfor 2 Years92
No RBC fee to use another bank’s ATMin Canada6167
Specialized advicefor newcomers from RBC Advisors
Get up to 12% cash backon a new RBC Cash Back Mastercard for the first 3 months†. Offer ends March 31, 2024.
Our Featured Chequing Account for Newcomers
Designed for newcomers, an RBC Advantage Banking Account is loaded with great features and benefits.
$0 monthly fee for one year for newcomers7
Monthly fee $11.95 after one year
Unlimited debit transactions in Canada
FreeInterace-Transfer transactions6165
$0 Transfer Fees18for International Money Transfers. Send money to almost any country in the world, including India, China, and the Philippines
Enrol your account in theValue Program, then shop online and in-store with your enrolled account to earn
Avion Rewards is Canada’s largest bank-owned loyalty program.
You canearn Avion pointswhen you:
Open and enrol an eligible RBC personal bank account in ourValue Programand use your enrolled account to make in-store or online
 
With Virtual Visa Debit74, you can make secure online purchases using the money in your bank account.
purchases75
Apply and qualify for an Avion Rewards credit card and use this card to make purchases36
You canredeem pointsfor95:
Gift cards and merchandise from some of your favourite brands
Booking flights, hotels and car rentals
Paying down credit cards, loans or bills
Avion Rewards alsogives you access to:
Discounts
Bonus Points
Special offers and savings
View Legal DisclaimersHide Legal Disclaimers
Debit transactions made using your Virtual Visa Debit Number do not count against any monthly transaction limits applicable to your personal deposit account. Other account fees may apply. Please see the RBC Royal Bank Disclosures and Agreements related to Personal Deposit Accounts booklet or other applicable account agreement for further details. You must request a Virtual Visa Debit card.
points on debit.10
Free small safe deposit box for 2 years92
View all Personal Chequing Accounts
Learn about the different ways to bank at RBC
It’s easy to apply for your first Canadian credit card. No credit history required for RBC personal banking clients. Here are a few of our most popular cards. We can help you choose one when you call or visit a branch.
No credit history required for RBC personal banking clients2. Higher credit limits are subject to higher income and asset requirements.
Up to $15,000 credit limit9
Get 10% bonus cash back for the first 3 months (up to a maximum spend of $2,000) with a new RBC Cash Back Mastercard†. Offer ends March 31, 2024.
No limit on how much cash back you can earn
Earn up to 2% cash back on grocery store purchases and up to 1% on everyday purchases35
Your credits accumulate automatically so you don’t need to keep track
Mastercard is accepted worldwide, and with Mastercard PayPass, a tap of your card is all it takes to pay at checkout
$0
Annual Fee
20.99%
Purchase Rate
22.99%
Cash Advance Rate
Up to $15,000 credit limit9
No credit history required for RBC personal banking clients2. Higher credit limits are subject to higher income and asset requirements.
Earn 1.5X Avion points36 for every $1 spent on:
Groceries – Satisfy your taste buds by earning points on groceriesi
Rideshare, Gas & EV Charging – Enjoy earning points on gas, rideshare, daily public transit, and electric vehicle chargingii
Streaming, Digital Gaming & Subscriptions– Stay entertained while earning points on streaming, gaming, eligible digital subscriptions, eligible digital downloads, and in-game purchasesiii
Earn 1 Avion point for every $1 spent on all other qualifying purchases36
$0
Annual Fee
20.99%
Purchase Rate
22.99%
Cash Advance Rate
Up to $15,000 credit limit9
No credit history required for RBC personal banking clients2. Higher credit limits are subject to higher income and asset requirements.
$120 annual fee
Receive 15,000
Avion Rewards is Canada’s largest bank-owned loyalty program.
You canearn Avion pointswhen you:
Open and enrol an eligible RBC personal bank account in ourValue Programand use your enrolled account to make in-store or online
 
With Virtual Visa Debit74, you can make secure online purchases using the money in your bank account.
purchases75
Apply and qualify for an Avion Rewards credit card and use this card to make purchases36
You canredeem pointsfor95:
Gift cards and merchandise from some of your favourite brands
Booking flights, hotels and car rentals
Paying down credit cards, loans or bills
Avion Rewards alsogives you access to:
Discounts
Bonus Points
Special offers and savings
View Legal DisclaimersHide Legal Disclaimers
Debit transactions made using your Virtual Visa Debit Number do not count against any monthly transaction limits applicable to your personal deposit account. Other account fees may apply. Please see the RBC Royal Bank Disclosures and Agreements related to Personal Deposit Accounts booklet or other applicable account agreement for further details. You must request a Virtual Visa Debit card.
points upon enrolment – upto $350 in travel value36
Earn 1 Avion Rewards point for every $1 you spend on qualifying purchases36
$120
Annual Fee
20.99%
Purchase Rate
22.99%
Cash Advance Rate
Up to $15,000 credit limit9
No credit history required for RBC personal banking clients2. Higher credit limits are subject to higher income and asset requirements.
$65 USD annual fee
Make your transactions in U.S. funds and avoid daily currency fluctuations
Earn 1
Avion Rewards is Canada’s largest bank-owned loyalty program.
You canearn Avion pointswhen you:
Open and enrol an eligible RBC personal bank account in ourValue Programand use your enrolled account to make in-store or online
 
With Virtual Visa Debit74, you can make secure online purchases using the money in your bank account.
purchases75
Apply and qualify for an Avion Rewards credit card and use this card to make purchases36
You canredeem pointsfor95:
Gift cards and merchandise from some of your favourite brands
Booking flights, hotels and car rentals
Paying down credit cards, loans or bills
Avion Rewards alsogives you access to:
Discounts
Bonus Points
Special offers and savings
View Legal DisclaimersHide Legal Disclaimers
Debit transactions made using your Virtual Visa Debit Number do not count against any monthly transaction limits applicable to your personal deposit account. Other account fees may apply. Please see the RBC Royal Bank Disclosures and Agreements related to Personal Deposit Accounts booklet or other applicable account agreement for further details. You must request a Virtual Visa Debit card.
point for every $1 USD you spend on qualifying purchases36
$65
Annual Fee
20.99%
Purchase Rate
22.99%
Cash Advance Rate
Earn interest daily on every dollar
Access and transfer your money easily
Know your money is safe
No minimum balance and no monthly fee107,108
Learn More
Send money any time, day or night
Send to over 120 countries
Easy and secure transfers through RBC Online Banking or the RBC Mobile25app.
 
Protect your valuable documents and small items
Securely stored inside the vault at your local RBC Royal Bank branch
Access your items any time during branch hours
Offer ends December 31, 2023
No credit history required4with flexible repayment options and financing terms.
Discover Car Loan Options
Get an RBC mortgage with no credit history required5, plus, get advice and tools to help you plan and buy.
Learn More About RBC Mortgages
With RBC you can invest in Canada’s popular investment plans to help you save, grow and protect your money16.
Learn More About RBC Investing
When you’re starting a business in Canada, getting the right financial advice can make all the difference to your success.
Products & Services for Businesses
When you open your first RBC High Interest eSavings account106.
Learn More
We’ve partnered with many brands and agencies to bring newcomer savings and services. It’s one way we’re helping to make your transition to Canada a little easier.
See Partner Offers
Get a Canada eSIM/SIM, plus a phone plan deal
Savings on gas with Petro Canada
Free Employment Webinars with Acces
Build your professional network with TRIEC
Free information / resources for your newcomer journey
We offer a few ways to talk to an advisor. Choose whichever option is best for you.
Connect to Our Team of Newcomer Advisors
Find a Branch and Book an Appointment
Call to book an appointment or open a bank account over the phone or by video conference
Call Toll-Free1-866-756-1107
 
Toll-free when dialled from the United States or Canada.Toll-free from these21 countries outside of North America when using the appropriate access code.
Call Toll-Free1-866-756-1107
.
Call collect:1-506-864-2275
 
To make a free collect call, contact your Telephone Directory system or an International Operator to obtain the International Access Code or other unique dialling codes that may apply in your country.
Call collect:1-506-864-2275
 
To make a free collect call, contact your Telephone Directory system or an International Operator to obtain the International Access Code or other unique dialling codes that may apply in your country.
.
View Legal DisclaimersHide Legal Disclaimers
Available to international students who have arrived in Canada within the last 5 years. Must show proof of entry into Canada with supporting documents, i.e., passport and study permit.
To participate in this offer, you must have an eligible RBC Debit Card, Personal Credit Card or Business Credit Card which is issued by Royal Bank of Canada (excluding RBC commercial credit cards) (“RBC Card”). RBC Business Owners will only be able to link up to two (2) Business Credit Cards and one RBC Debit Card to a Be Well Card. Eligible RBC Debit Cards are debit cards tied to a personal banking or savings account or a business banking or savings account in good standing that is set up to pay for goods and services at a store or merchant that has point of sale or other designated debit card terminals that accept debit card payments. You must be enrolled in RBC Online Banking or the RBC Mobile app in order to link your RBC Card to your Be Well Card. Card linking may take up to 2 business days to process before Be Well points can be applied to purchases. Each time you scan your Be Well Card and pay with your Linked RBC Card, you will earn 50 Be Well points for every $1 spent on eligible purchases at Rexall Locations, in accordance with the Be Well Terms and Conditions available  athttps://www.letsbewell.ca/terms-conditions
Be Well points are not awarded on taxes; tobacco products; products containing codeine; lottery tickets; alcohol; bottle deposits; gift cards; prepaid cards and wireless or long distance phone cards; event tickets; transit tickets and passes; post office transactions; stamps; passport photos; cash back; gifts with purchases; delivery charges; environmental levies; Home Health Care services/rentals and any other products or services that we may specify from time to time or where prohibited by law.
Available to newcomers who are (i) permanent residents or international students who arrived in Canada within the last 12 months, or (ii) temporary resident workers who arrived in Canada within the last 48 months, provided you meet all of the eligibility and credit criteria of Royal Bank of Canada.
You must apply for the RBC Cash Back Mastercard by March 31, 2024, at an RBC Royal Bank branch, and be approved by us. You will earn an additional $10.00 back for every $100.00 (10% Cash Back Credit) in Net Purchases (including pre-authorized bill payments) charged on your RBC Cash Back Mastercard account within the first 3 months of account opening, up to a maximum total combined spend of $2,000 (“Welcome Bonus”). Thereafter, the standard Cash Back Credit earn rates of up to 2% on Grocery Store Purchases and up to 1% on other Net Purchases (that are not Grocery Store Purchases) apply. The Welcome Bonus is in addition to the standard Cash Back Credit earn rates. Cash Back Credits are not earned on cash advances (including balance transfers, cash-like transactions and bill payments that are not pre-authorized charges that you set up with a merchant), interest charges or fees, and credits for returns and adjustments will reduce or cancel the cash back credits earned by the amounts originally charged. The Welcome Bonus will appear on your next monthly statement after it was earned, and will be credited as set out in disclosure 35 (below). For complete details on the RBC Cash Back Program including standard earn rates and crediting of Cash Back Rewards, please refer to the RBC Cash Back Program Terms and Conditions atwww.rbc.com/cashbackterms. Offer applies to new RBC Cash Back Mastercard accounts only.
One offer per eligible account. Existing cardholders of any RBC personal credit card, applying for or transferring to an RBC Cash Back Mastercard card, are not eligible for this offer. This offer may not be combined or used in conjunction with any other offer except as otherwise set out. Royal Bank of Canada reserves the right to modify, cancel or withdraw this offer at any time. This offer may be revoked at any time if we suspect you may be manipulating or abusing it, or engaging in any suspicious or fraudulent activity, as determined by Royal Bank of Canada in its sole discretion.
Available only to (i) Newcomers to Canada who arrived within the last 5 years and (ii) for non-credit card accounts with RBC. Must show proof of entry into Canada and provide supporting documents such as landing papers or permanent resident card. Other conditions apply. See branch for details. This offer may be withdrawn at any time and is subject to change without notice.
An RBC Royal Bank credit card with no credit history required is available to RBC personal deposit clients who are (i) permanent residents and international students who arrived in Canada within the last 12 months, or (ii) temporary resident workers who arrived in Canada within the last 48 months, provided you meet all of the eligibility and credit criteria of Royal Bank of Canada.
No annual fee is available with the following RBC Royal Bank credit cards: RBCCash Back Mastercard, RBC Rewards + Visa, RBC Visa Platinum.
RBC automotive financing products are offered by Royal Bank of Canada by way of conditional sales contract (in Quebec, installment sales contract) and are subject to its standard lending criteria.
Available to permanent residents and temporary foreign workers who have been in Canada for less than 3 years. Down payment of up to 15% may be required. Maximum financing term is 96 months with a maximum loan amount of $75,000. Note: for investor class permanent residents, there is no maximum loan amount. No credit history required on vehicles less than 10 years old, provided you meet all of the eligibility and credit criteria of Royal Bank of Canada.
You may be eligible for an RBC Royal Bank residential mortgage or mortgage within an RBC Homeline Plan, even if you have no or thin Canadian credit history, provided you meet all of the eligibility and credit criteria of Royal Bank of Canada and do not have adverse credit bureau information . All residential mortgages and lending products are provided by Royal Bank of Canada are subject to its standard lending criteria. Available to permanent residents who have been in Canada less than 5 years. Temporary residents may also apply. To take advantage of these offers, you must show proof of entry into Canada and provide supporting documents such as a passport, and landing papers (work permit/visa) or Canadian permanent resident card. Additional documents may be required to validate down payment funds sourced from another country.
For applications that result in a written mortgage pre-approval or approval, containing an interest rate commitment, the interest rate is guaranteed for up to 120 days from the rate commitment. The mortgage must fund within 120 days from the start of the rate commitment. Other terms and conditions may apply. See your RBC mortgage specialist orfind an RBC Mortgage Specialistfor more details.
Monthly fee will be waived for the first twelve months upon account opening of the RBC Advantage Banking account or RBC VIP Banking account. Thereafter the standard monthly fee applicable to your account type will be charged: monthly fee of $11.95 for the RBC Advantage Banking account or monthly fee of $30.00 for the RBC VIP Banking account. For RBC VIP Banking account, $10,000 CAD must be deposited into the account within 20 days of account opening to qualify for the promotional offer, which expires October 31, 2024. Other account transaction fees may apply. Monthly fee waiver for the first twelve months may be replaced with any in-market offer that applies to the RBC Advantage Banking or RBC VIP Banking account. Available only to newcomers; please see the eligibility requirements in above note 1. Offer may be withdrawn or amended at any time without notice. See completeterms and conditionsthat apply to this promotional offer.
Debit transaction means a withdrawal of funds from an account and includes an assisted transaction and an electronic self-serve transaction. RBC Virtual Visa Debits, RBC Royal Bank loan payments, RBC Royal Bank mortgage payments, pre-authorized or self-serve RBC Royal Bank credit card payments, contributions to RBC investment accounts (such as GICs, Royal Mutual Funds, Registered Savings Plans, Registered Education Savings Plans, Registered Disability Savings Plans and Tax-Free Savings Accounts) and electronic self-serve fund transfers from your savings account to any account in your name are free of charge. All other Debit Transactions from any Savings Account are counted as Debit Transactions in the account and give rise to an Excess Debit Transaction Fee, if any free monthly Debit Transaction is exceeded.
Your credit limit will be based on financially related information about you, including income and asset information. Offer available to RBC personal deposit accountholders who are (i) permanent residents who arrived in Canada within the last 12 months, or (ii) temporary resident workers who arrived in Canada within the last 48 months, applying for a new RBC Royal Bank personal credit card (excluding the RBC Rate Advantage Visa). Existing RBC Royal Bank personal credit card cardholders are not eligible. Royal Bank of Canada reserves the right to cancel, modify or withdraw this offer at any time. Higher credit limits are subject to higher income and asset requirements.
RBC Virtual Visa Debits, Third-party payment Debits, RBC Royal Bank loan payments, RBC Royal Bank mortgage payments, pre-authorized and self-serve RBC Royal Bank credit card payments and contributions to RBC investment accounts (such as GICs, Royal Mutual Funds, Registered Savings Plans, Registered Education Savings Plans, Registered Disability Savings Plans and Tax-Free Savings Accounts) from your RBC Day to Day Banking account, U.S. Personal Account, Leo’s Young Savers account or RBC Advantage Banking account for students are free of charge. All other Debit Transactions from these Accounts are counted as Debit Transactions towards the free monthly Debit Transactions included in the Account, and give rise to an Excess Debit Transaction Fee if the total free monthly Debit Transactions are exceeded.
Additional service fees by any intermediary and receiving bank may apply.
To receive the 20,000 bonus Avion Rewards points, your application form must be approved by us. Upon enrolment, 20,000 bonus Avion Rewards points will appear on your first credit card statement. Bonus points offer is only offered to the Primary Business Cardholder on the account; Secondary Business Cardholder as well as existing RBC Avion Visa Business cardholders as of the offer eligibility period are not eligible for this offer. This offer may not be combined or used in conjunction with any other offer. RBC Royal Bank reserves the right to withdraw this offer at any time, even after acceptance by you.
Get preferred interest rates on select GICs. Contact anRBC branchfor more details.
Additional service fees by any intermediary and receiving bank may apply.
If you are a post-secondary student and an Account owner of an RBC AdvantageTMBanking Account for students (an “Eligible Student Bank Account”) and the primary cardholder of the RBC ION+TMVisa‡, Signature®RBC®Rewards Visa credit card, or WestJet RBC MasterCard credit card (each, an “Eligible Student Credit Card”), you may be entitled to a rebate towards the annual fee of your Eligible Student Credit Card, every year. For any other RBC Royal Bank credit card, regular annual fees apply as they are not eligible for a rebate.
To benefit from a rebate towards the annual fee of an Eligible Student Credit Card, you must: i) be approved for an eligible RBC Student Credit Card, ii) Open or Activate an Eligible Student Credit Card, and iii) be an Account owner of an Eligible Student Bank Account.
You will continue to benefit from the rebate on your annual fee: i) until you close your Eligible Student Bank Account, or ii) until the Expected Graduation Year you have provided for your Eligible Student Bank Account, whichever comes first. Thereafter, you will no longer receive the rebate on the annual fee. If, for some reason, the Expected Graduation Year you have provided at the opening of your Eligible Student Bank Account differs from the one you have indicated on your credit card application form, the Expected Graduation Year you have provided at the opening of your Eligible Student Bank Account will prevail and be used for determining the expiry of this offer.
Additional cardholders (co-applicants and authorized users) are not eligible for this offer. Only one credit card annual fee rebate per Eligible Student Bank Account is allowed. This means that if this is a jointly held Eligible Student Bank Account, and each co-owner is also the primary cardholder of an Eligible Student Credit Card, only the Primary Owner of the Eligible Student Bank Account will be entitled to the credit card annual fee rebate.
As a sole or joint owner of an RBC Signature No Limit Banking (SNL) account and the primary RBC ION+ Visa cardholder, the $4 monthly fee ($48 annually) of your RBC ION+ Visa card will be fully rebated, every month, as long as your eligible credit card remains in good standing and you remain an SNL account owner. Additional cardholders (co-applicants and authorized users) do not qualify for the annual fee rebate, even if they are also owners of an SNL account. Only one credit card annual fee rebate per SNL account is allowed. Other conditions and restrictions apply. Royal Bank of Canada reserves the right to withdraw this offer at any time, even after acceptance by you.
Subject to credit approval. As a sole or joint owner of an RBC VIP Banking (VIP) account and the primary cardholder of one of the eligible credit cards listed below, the annual fee of that eligible credit card will be fully or partially rebated (as indicated below), every year, as long as your credit card remains in good standing and you remain a VIP account owner. Additional cardholders’ annual fee is also fully or partially rebated (as indicated below), every year, as long as your eligible credit card remains in good standing and you remain a VIP account owner. Only one credit card annual fee rebate per VIP account is allowed, which means that if you own a joint VIP account and each co-owner is also the primary cardholder of an eligible credit card, only the primary owner of the VIP account will be entitled to the credit card annual fee rebate. Other conditions and restrictions apply. Rebates that apply to eligible credit cards are: (i) partial rebate of $120 for the primary cardholder and $50 for the co-applicant on the annual fee of an RBC Avion Visa Infinite Privilege card, and (ii) annual fee fully rebated for the primary cardholder and the additional cardholders (co-applicant and authorized users) on any of the following cards: RBC Avion Visa Infinite, RBC Avion Visa Platinum, RBC Rewards Visa Preferred, RBC U.S. Dollar Visa Gold, RBC British Airways Visa Infinite, RBC Cathay Pacific Visa Platinum, RBC Cash Back Preferred World Elite Mastercard and WestJet RBC World Elite Mastercard.
RBC VIP Banking account comes with a choice of up to two additional Canadian dollar deposit accounts, to be selected among the RBC Day to Day Banking, RBC Enhanced Savings and RBC Day to Day Savings accounts, and one additional U.S dollar deposit account, limited to the U.S. Personal Account, with the monthly fees waived. Note: Due to system limitations all accounts must be opened by the client in the same geographic location or region to be recognized for this bundling feature. If you have questions, please speak to your branch.
Open an eligible business deposit account for your first business in Canada and receive a $50 bonus which will be credited to your new business deposit account within 90 days. Eligible business deposit accounts include: RBC Digital Choice Business account package, RBC Flex Choice Business account package and RBC Ultimate Choice account package. This offer is only available to Small Businesses registered in Canada by newcomers who have been in Canada for 5 years or less. This offer cannot be combined with any other offer. The account must remain open for at least 6 months from the date it was opened. If the account is closed within 6 months, Royal Bank of Canada reserves the right to recover the full cash credit. RBC can amend or withdraw this offer at any time without notice.
Must be enrolled in RBC Online Banking or the RBC Mobile app and have either a Canadian RBC Royal Bank chequing or savings account. Some restrictions may apply. Cannot send funds from a US dollar account, or the RBC High Interest eSavings account.
RBC Mobile is operated by Royal Bank of Canada, RBC Direct Investing Inc. and RBC Dominion Securities Inc. RBC Canada, Avion Rewards and RBC eGift are operated by Royal Bank of Canada. RBC Online Banking and Telephone Banking are provided by Royal Bank of Canada. Standard message and data charges apply. Transaction fees may apply for bill payments or fund transfers made through Online Banking and are separate from access fees.
Apple, Apple Pay, iPhone, iPad and MacBook Pro are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the US and other countries. Apple Pay and Touch ID are trademarks of Apple Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owner(s). View the full list of Terms and Conditions for use of RBC Royal Bankcredit cardsand/ordebit cardswith Apple Pay.
For sole proprietorship registration, “$89 back” offer, and for incorporation, “$300 back” offer are each inclusive of any applicable taxes (“Offer”). Offer available when you register or incorporate with Ownr and apply and get approved for a new RBC business deposit account associated with the business registered or incorporated with Ownr (“BDA”) within 60 days (“Application Criteria”). Royal Bank of Canada (not Ownr or RBC Ventures Inc.) will in its discretion make approval decisions for all BDA applications. Once you complete the Application Criteria, you must log back into your Ownr account and click ‘Refund Me’. You will receive the Offer as a credit in your BDA within 7-10 business days of clicking ‘Refund Me’. To qualify for this Offer your BDA must remain open for a period of 1 year from the date it is opened but there is no minimum balance that must be maintained in your BDA. If you received this Offer then change or close your BDA within 1 year of the date it was opened, we reserve the right to debit from your BDA an amount equal to the value of this Offer (inclusive of applicable taxes), even if this places the BDA into overdraft. Offer may be revised or withdrawn at any time without notice.
Request Money is a feature of theInterace-Transfer service. RBC business deposit accounts will incur anInterace-Transfer fee of $1.50 for each funds request sent. Recipients of the request may have payment limits at their Financial Institutions.
ATM use outside CanadaEach account cash withdrawal at an ATM outside Canada displaying the PLUS System symbol and any fees that may be imposed by any third party for using the ATM are converted to Canadian dollars at an exchange rate that is 2.5% above the benchmark rate set by the payment card company when the transaction is posted. Exchange rates fluctuate and, as such, the rate applied will usually differ from the posted exchange rate at the time of the transaction.
ATMs – 3 withdrawals from other bank ATMs refunded per Monthly CycleATM operator surcharge (also called a convenience fee) may apply. It is charged by a third party and added directly to the amount of your cash withdrawal. Totals are not cumulative, and if not used, may not be carried over into the next Monthly Cycle
ATM – Unlimited banking transactions includingInteracand PLUS System network fees waivedATM operator surcharge (also called a convenience fee) may be charged by other ATM operators. The convenience fee is not a Royal Bank fee and is added directly to the amount of your cash withdrawal. All clients who use non-RBC ATMs may be charged a convenience fee regardless of the type of account they hold.
Autodeposit is a feature of theInterace-Transfer service. There are no additional fees to register or receive funds via Autodeposit. Standard fees and charges, such as Regular account deposit fees, apply.
RBC will refund theInteracnetwork access fee for RBC Signature No Limit Banking account holders, up to a maximum of 3 refunds per Monthly Cycle, if used. RBC will refund theInteracnetwork access fee for RBC VIP Banking account holders, if used. ATM operator surcharge (also called convenience fee) charged by other ATM operators may apply. The convenience fee is not an RBC fee. It is added directly to the amount of your cash withdrawal. All clients who use non-RBC ATMs may be charged a convenience fee regardless of the type of account they hold.
The interest rate is an annual interest rate and a simple interest calculation. Interest is calculated daily on the closing credit balance. Deposit interest is paid monthly to the account on the second business day of the following calendar month, backdated to the previous business day. Interest rate is subject to change at any time without notice.https://www.rbcroyalbank.com/rates/persacct.html
You will earn i) $2.00 back for every $100.00 (2% Cash Back Credit) in Grocery Store Purchases you make up to a maximum of $6,000 per Annual Period; ii) $1.00 back for every $100.00 (1% Cash Back Credit) in Grocery Store Purchases you make in excess of $6,000 during an Annual Period, unlimited; iii) $0.50 back for every $100.00 (0.5% Cash Back Credit) in Net Purchases you make (including pre-authorized bill payments), other than Grocery Store Purchases, up to a maximum of $6,000 per Annual Period, and iv) $1.00 back for every $100.00 (1% Cash Back Credit) in Net Purchases you make (including pre-authorized bill payments), other than Grocery Store Purchases, in excess of $6,000 during an Annual Period, unlimited. Grocery Store Purchases are purchases made at merchants classified by Mastercard’s “Merchant Category Code” as “grocery stores and supermarkets” (MCC 5411). Royal Bank of Canada (“Royal Bank”) cannot guarantee that any merchant, operating in whole or in part as a grocery store, is classified by MCC 5411 and in no event will Royal Bank be liable or responsible for any claims with respect to a grocery store purchase made at a merchant that is not classified by MCC 5411. To consult the list of participating merchants, please visitwww.rbc.com/nofeecashback. For complete details, please refer to the RBC Cash Back Program Terms and Conditions atwww.rbc.com/nofeecashback
You will earn 1.5 Avion points for every $1.00 in Grocery, Rides, Gas, Electric Vehicle Charging, Streaming, and Digital Gaming & Subscriptions Purchases you make on your RBC ION Visa credit card at merchants classified by Visa’s “Merchant Category Code” (MCC). Depending on how certain merchants are categorized by Visa’s “Merchant Category Code” (MCC) they may not qualify as an eligible MCC. Eligible MCCs are listed as:
(i) “Grocery Stores and Supermarkets” (MCC 5411) are “Grocery Purchases”;(ii) “Service Stations (With or without Ancillary Services)” (MCC 5541), “Automated Fuel Dispensers” (MCC 5542), “Taxicabs and Limousines” (MCC 4121), “Local and Suburban Commuter Passenger Transportation, Including Ferries” (MCC 4111), Electric Vehicle Charging” (MCC 5552) are “Rides, Gas & Electric Vehicle Charging Purchases”. Non-commuter passenger railway purchases and non-commuter bus line purchases do not qualify as part of “Rides, Gas & Electric Vehicle Charging Purchases”;(iii) “Digital Goods Media – Books, Movies, Music” (MCC 5815), “Digital Goods – Games” (MCC 5816), “Digital Goods – Applications (Excludes Games)” (MCC 5817), “Digital Goods – Large Digital Goods Merchants” (MCC 5818), “Cable, Satellite, and Other Pay Television/Radio/Streaming Services” (MCC 4899) are “Streaming, Digital Gaming & Subscriptions Purchases”. The “Digital Goods – Games” MCC does not include games of chance and gambling.
You will earn 1 Avion point for every $1.00 on all other purchases (including pre-authorized bill payments) you make on your RBC ION Visa credit card.
Even though some merchants may sell Grocery, Rides, Gas, Electric Vehicle Charging, Streaming, and Digital Gaming & Subscriptions merchandise, purchases made at these locations may not necessarily qualify as Eligible MCCs if the merchant is not classified as such by Visa. Also, you may make a purchase at a merchant that is not classified as an Eligible MCC but is located on the premises of a merchant that is classified as an Eligible MCC, in which case your purchase would not qualify as an Eligible MCC. We cannot guarantee that any merchant, operating in whole or in part as a Grocery, Rides, Gas, Electric Vehicle Charging, Streaming, and Digital Gaming & Subscriptions merchant is classified as an Eligible MCC and in no event will we be liable or responsible for any claims with respect to a Grocery, Rides, gas, Electric Vehicle Charging, Streaming, and Digital Gaming & Subscriptions purchase made at a merchant that is not classified as an Eligible MCC. Avion points are earned on net purchases only; they are not earned on cash advances (balance transfers, cash-like transactions and bill payments that are not pre-authorized charges that you set up with a merchant), interest charges or fees, and credits for returns and adjustments will reduce or cancel the points earned by the amounts originally charged.
Down payment of less than 20% of the value of a property requires a maximum 25-year amortization and will not qualify for a 30-year amortization. In addition, if your down payment is less than 20%, you must pay a mortgage default insurance premium charged by a mortgage insurer. This insurance protects the financial institution if you ever default on your mortgage. Available for Conventional Newcomer Equity and Standard Programs. Default insured programs are limited to 25 years.
This is provided for informational purposes only and is not intended as legal or other professional advice. Automotive financing products are offered by Royal Bank of Canada and are subject to its standard lending criteria.
This information is in summary form and is intended for general guidance and information only. It is not intended to provide financial, legal or other advice. It should not be regarded as comprehensive or a substitute for professional advice.
This publication provides general information only and is not intended to provide specific advice. Not intended to offer services or solicit customers where prohibited by law. Automotive financing products are offered by Royal Bank of Canada and are subject to its standard lending criteria. Some additional conditions apply. Offer may be changed or withdrawn at any time, without notice. Not available in combination with any other rate discounts, offers or promotions.
Income earned in a TFSA is tax-free in Canada. There are penalties if excess contributions are made. If a Canadian resident is subject to taxation on their world income in another country (e.g. based on citizenship), the TFSA income may not be tax-free in that country. U.S. taxpayers who hold TFSAs need to comply with U.S. tax requirements such as the annual filing on a timely basis of IRS Forms 3520 and 3520-A.
The TFSA only shelters foreign workers’ investment income from Canadian tax; seek professional advice regarding tax rules in other jurisdictions.
Income earned in an RESP is tax-deferred in Canada. There are penalties if excess contributions are made. If a Canadian resident is subject to taxation on their world income in another country (e.g. based on citizenship), the RESP income may not be tax-free in that country. U.S. taxpayers who contribute to RESPs need to comply with U.S. tax requirements such as the annual filing on a timely basis of IRS Forms 3520 and 3520-A.
Foreign workers and international students may begin contributing to an RRSP or RESP before obtaining or applying for permanent residency.
The maximum RRSP contribution limit for 2018 is $26,230; for 2017, it was $26,010.
ETFs, stocks and bonds may be purchased through RBC Direct Investing, our low-cost online investing and trading service for self-directed investors or RBC Wealth Management.
When you use Virtual Visa Debit to make a payment: a) The merchant performs an authorization on your personal deposit account at the time of the purchase and this authorization amount is immediately debited from that account. This process is followed by a settlement, typically 2-5 business days after authorization, which finalizes the amount of the purchase and, in some cases, reflects adjustments to the initial authorization amount. When this happens, a credit adjustment in the amount of the original authorization will be credited to your account, followed immediately by a debit adjustment that reflects the final settlement amount of your purchase. b) The funds are debited from your personal deposit account, which is the account you access with your RBC Royal Bank Client Card when you select the “Chequing” option on a point-of-sale terminal or at an ATM. If the account linked to the primary chequing position on your Client Card is changed before a payment has been settled, it may impact the processing of that payment if the merchant needs to adjust the initial authorization amount. The final settlement amount will be processed on the account that is linked to the primary chequing position on your Client Card at the time of settlement, even if a different account was debited for the authorization amount. Please see your RBC Royal Bank Virtual Visa Debit Agreement for further details.
Debit transactions made using your Virtual Visa Debit Number do not count against any monthly transaction limits applicable to your personal deposit account. Other account fees may apply. Please see the RBC Royal Bank Disclosures and Agreements related to Personal Deposit Accounts booklet or other applicable account agreement for further details.
When you use your Virtual Visa Debit Number for a transaction in a currency other than Canadian dollars, we will convert the transaction amount into Canadian dollars at an exchange rate that is 2.5% over a benchmark rate Royal Bank of Canada pays Visa International, a subsidiary of Visa Inc., on the date of the conversion. For most transactions, the authorization amount debited by the merchant at the time of purchase will be adjusted at settlement to reflect changes in the applicable exchange rate.
You will earn i) $1.00 back for every $100.00 (1% Cash Back Credit) in Net Purchases you make (including pre-authorized bill payments) and, ii) for the first 3 full monthly statement periods (approximately 3 months from the date your Account is opened), you will earn an additional $1.00 back for every $100.00 (1% Cash Back Credit welcome bonus, for a total of 2%) in Net Purchases you make (including pre-authorized bill payments), up to a maximum combined Cash Back Credit of $650.00 per Annual Period, when you use your RBC Business Cash Back Mastercard to pay. For clarity, the additional $1.00 Cash Back Credit welcome bonus will only apply for the first 3 full monthly statement periods in your first Annual Period. Provided your New Cash Back Balance is $25.00 or more, Cash Back Credits earned during the year will i) automatically be credited to your January Account balance and appear on your February monthly statement, and/or ii) be credited at any other time, upon request. Cash Back Credits are not earned on cash advances (including balance transfers, cash-like transactions and bill payments that are not pre-authorized charges that you set up with a merchant), interest charges or fees, and credits for returns and adjustments will reduce or cancel the cash back credits earned by the amounts originally charged. From time to time we may offer bonus cash back promotions and will disclose the terms and conditions in the offer details. For complete details, please refer to the RBC Cash Back Program Terms and Conditions at:www.rbc.com/cashbackterms. Royal Bank of Canada reserves the right to withdraw or amend this benefit at any time.
Each time you use your linked Eligible RBC Card to purchase any grade of gasoline, including diesel, at a Retail Petro-Canada Location, you will:
i) save three cents ($0.03) per litre at the time of the transaction. Card linking may take up to 2 business days to process before savings and bonus points can be applied to purchases.ii) earn a bonus of twenty percent (20%) more Petro-Points than you normally earn, in accordance withthe Petro-Points Terms and Conditionsiii) earn a bonus of twenty percent (20%) more Avion Points than you normally earn for every $1 in purchases in accordance with theAvion Rewards Terms and ConditionsPlease allow up to ninety (90) days from the date the transaction is posted on your credit card statement for the bonus points to be deposited into Avion Rewards account. Authorized Users are excluded from earning Avion points bonus.
To participate in this offer, you must have an RBC debit or credit card which is issued by Royal Bank of Canada (excluding RBC commercial credit cards) (“Eligible RBC Card”). You must be enrolled in RBC Online Banking in order to link your Eligible RBC Card to your Petro-Points card. Card linking may take up to 2 business days to process before savings and bonus points can be applied to purchases. Each time you use your linked Eligible RBC Card to purchase any grade of gasoline, including diesel, at a retail Petro-Canada location, you will save three cents ($0.03) per litre at the time of the transaction.
Petro-Canada and Petro-Points are trademarks of Suncor Energy Inc. Used under licence. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owner(s).
The annual contribution limit is $5,500. This limit will rise along with inflation in future years, in $500 increments. In addition, you can carry forward unused contribution room indefinitely. Previous contribution limits were $5,500 for 2016 and 2017, $10,000 for 2015, $5,500 for 2013 and 2014, and $5,000 for the years 2009 to 2012. Your TFSA contribution limit is tracked by the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA); if you are unsure of your limit, please check with the CRA.
To participate in this offer as an RBC business client, you must have an RBC client card or credit card issued by Royal Bank of Canada (excluding RBC Commercial Avion, RBC Commercial U.S. Dollar Visa, RBC Commercial Cash Back Visa, and RBC Commercial Visa) (“Eligible RBC Card”). When you participate in the Linked Loyalty Program as an RBC business client, you will only be able to link up to two (2) eligible business RBC credit cards and one RBC client card to a Petro-Points account. You must be enrolled in RBC Online Banking for Business in order to link. Card linking may take up to 2 business days to process before savings and bonus points can be applied to purchases. For more information, visitrbc.com/linkbusiness.
Unlimited means there is no maximum cash back credits you can earn on Grocery Store Purchases and other purchases (up to your available credit limit) per Annual Period. For complete RBC Cash Back Program Terms and Conditions, please visit:www.rbc.com/cashbackterms
Includes electronic (digital) debit and credit transactions to the account, such as online bill payments, pre-authorized payments (PAPs) and point of sale (POS) transactions. Standard fees apply for other services, including cheques and cash deposited at RBC ATMs, Pay Employees & Vendors (PEV),Interace-Transfer transactions and wire transfers not expressly included in the package when completed online. For full list of fees not included with the account review theRBC Digital Choice Business Account Package page.
Only includes outgoingInterace-Transfer transactions sent on the RBC Online Banking for business platform. Excludes all otherInterace-Transfer services such as Autodeposit, Request Money, Request Money Fulfillment and BulkInterace-Transfer service.
There is a limit of 999 freeInterace-Transfer Transactions per Month per Account; for everyInterace-Transfer Transaction over the limit, you will be charged $1.00.
To get a short-haul flight to any adjoining province/state in Canada or the U.S., you will need a total of 15,000 Avion Rewards points, for a maximum ticket price of $350. To receive the 15,000 bonus Avion Rewards points which will appear on your first statement, your application form must be approved by us. Additional cardholder(s), as well as cardholder(s) with existing RBC Royal Bank travel rewards credit cards, applying for or transferring to an RBC Avion Visa Infinite card as of the offer eligibility period, are not eligible for this offer. This offer may not be combined or used in conjunction with another offer. All applicable taxes, service fees and surcharges are the responsibility of the traveller. For Air Travel Reward redemption details, visithttps://www.rbcrewards.com/travel-rewards/avion-redemption-grid/. Some restrictions apply. For complete terms and conditions that apply to the Avion Rewards program, please visit:http://www.rbcrewards.comor call 1-800-769-2512. Royal Bank of Canada reserves the right to withdraw this offer at any time, even after acceptance by you.
Trip Cancellation insurance is subject to a limit of $1,500 for each Covered Person (to an overall maximum of $5,000 for all Covered Persons) per trip, and it protects eligible cardholders against the cost of non-refundable travel arrangements that were purchased with your RBC Avion Visa Business card if the trip is cancelled prior to your departure due to an unexpected or unforeseen covered risk. Trip Interruption insurance is subject to a maximum limit of $5,000 for each Covered Person, per trip, for a total maximum of $25,000. This coverage provides reimbursement for the non-refundable unused portion of your prepaid travel arrangements purchased with your RBC Avion Visa Business card, and interrupted due to a covered risk, including the extra costs of economy class transportation to your departure point. Please refer to the Insurance Certificate for complete details regarding these coverages.
Coverage underwritten by Aviva General Insurance Company in the Province of Quebec and by RBC Insurance Company of Canada in the rest of Canada.
All insurance is subject to limitations and exclusions. Please refer to the insurance certificates included in your printed Welcome Kit for complete details or online athttps://www.rbcroyalbank.com/credit-cards/cardholders.html
Interace-Transfer Transactions expire 30 days after they are sent and cannot be claimed by the recipient after this time. You have 15 days after theInterace-Transfer Transaction is sent to cancel without charge. A $5.00Interace-Transfer Transaction Reclaim Fee is charged when a recipient does not accept it before it expires and the sender does not cancel the transaction before the 15-day cancellation period.
An ATM operator surcharge (also called convenience fee) may be charged by other ATM operators. The convenience fee is not a Royal Bank fee. It is added directly to the amount of your cash withdrawal. All clients who use non-RBC ATMs may be charged a convenience fee regardless of the type of Account they hold.
When you use your Client Card to make a withdrawal in a currency other than Canadian dollars at an ATM outside Canada displaying the PLUS system symbol, we will convert the amounts withdrawn and any associated charges imposed by any third party for the use of the ATM to Canadian dollars when we deduct the funds from your Account. We will convert these amounts to Canadian dollars no later than the date we post the transaction to your Account at our exchange rate, which is 2.5% over a benchmark rate set by Visa International, a subsidiary of Visa Inc., and which Royal Bank of Canada pays on the date of conversion. This rate may be different from the rate in effect on the date your ATM withdrawal occurred or on the date of the transaction.
The length of hold will be four (4) business days after the day of the deposit if the cheque or other negotiable item is deposited in person with an employee at one of RBC’s branches or points of service and is in Canadian dollars, drawn on a Canadian branch of a Canadian financial institution.
The length of hold will be five (5) business days after the day of deposit if the cheque or other negotiable item is deposited in any other manner, such as at an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) or using our Mobile Cheque Deposit service, and is in Canadian dollars, drawn on a Canadian branch of a Canadian financial institution.
The length of hold will also be five (5) business days after the day of deposit if the cheque or other negotiable item is in U.S. dollars and drawn on a Canadian branch of a Canadian financial institution.
The length of hold will be fifteen (15) business days after the first business day of deposit if the cheque or other negotiable item is drawn on a U.S. bank and is deposited at a Canadian branch of a Canadian financial institution.
The length of hold will be twenty-five (25) business days after the first business day of deposit if the cheque or other negotiable item is drawn on a foreign bank other than a U.S. bank and is deposited at a Canadian branch of a Canadian financial institution.
Subject to credit approval. The variable annual interest rate will be determined based on information you provide on the application and any credit bureau information. The annual interest rate is based on the Prime Rate plus an additional premium that ranges between 2.9% and 11.9%. Your premium will be calculated on an annual basis and could only change once a year. Prime Rate means the annual rate of interest Royal Bank of Canada announces from time to time as a reference rate for determining interest rates on Canadian dollar commercial loans in Canada. Our Prime Rate in effect on the first business day of the month will be the Prime Rate we use for the purposes of calculating your annual interest rate for the statement period ending in that month, even if our Prime Rate has changed during the month. The Prime Rate may fluctuate from time to time. It can be found in all our branches or online atwww.rbcroyalbank.com/rates
Debit transactions made using your Virtual Visa Debit Number do not count against any monthly transaction limits applicable to your personal deposit account. Other account fees may apply. Please see the RBC Royal Bank Disclosures and Agreements related to Personal Deposit Accounts booklet or other applicable account agreement for further details. You must request a Virtual Visa Debit card.
When you enroll your eligible RBC personal bank account into the RBC Value Program, you will be eligible to earn Avion Rewards points within the Avion Rewards Program as an Eligible Personal Banking Client, and any such points earned will be deposited into the Avion Rewards account tied to your enrolled account. Purchases from your account refers to using your RBC Client Card to pay for items at a merchant or service provider with the amount electronically debited directly from your enrolled account or using your RBC Virtual Visa Debit for purchases online. Avion Rewards points are governed by theAvion Rewards Terms and Conditionsavailable on our website, or a copy may be provided to you by contacting us. For complete details on the Value Program, please see theValue Program Terms & Conditions
RBC Advantage Banking for students allows eligible full-time students to receive a full waiver of the standard Monthly Fee applicable to our RBC Advantage Banking account. Please refer to the section labelled “Rebates and Discounts: RBC Advantage Banking for Students” in the document entitled “Addendum to April 30, 2020 Personal Deposit Accounts Disclosures and Agreements”, which provides information specific to the RBC Advantage Banking account to supplement the information provided in the Personal Deposit Accounts Disclosures and Agreements document.
To be considered a full-time student, you must attend a primary or secondary school OR be enrolled in a program at the post-secondary level at a college, university or other educational institution (whether in Canada or not). If you are a post-secondary student, you must take at least 60% of the usual course load for the program in which you are enrolled in any particular semester. Proof of enrollment may be requested at our discretion.  Students who are 25 years of age and older must provide proof of enrollment.
Your RBC Virtual Visa Debit is associated with your primary chequing account. This is the account you access with your RBC Royal Bank Client Card when you select the “Chequing” option on a merchant payment terminal or at an automated teller machine. RBC Virtual Visa Debit is not available to business clients.
RBC Mobile is operated by Royal Bank of Canada, RBC Direct Investing Inc. and RBC Dominion Securities Inc. RBC Mobile Student Edition is intended for clients under the age of 22. RBC Online Banking is operated by Royal Bank of Canada.
Arrive is powered by RBC Ventures Inc., a subsidiary of RBC.
We will rebate the standard NSF fee of $45.00 for your first NSF transaction in a given calendar year. You will be charged $45.00 for each NSF in the calendar year thereafter. You may not carry over unused NSF fee rebates from previous calendar years.
Up to 6,000 Avion Rewards points is a combination of 2,500 welcome Avion Rewards points exclusive to eligible newcomers, as outlined in note 71, and the digital bonus offer of up to 3,500 Avion Rewards points set out in note 87.
RBC Rewards+ Visa cardholders get our most popular $25 gift cards for 2,500 points. All rewards are subject to availability. The regular redemption rate for Avion Rewards members, other than RBC Rewards+ cardholders, is 3,500 Avion Rewards points for a $25 gift card for Amazon.ca, iTunes, Starbucks, McCafe and Cineplex. Point redemption values may fluctuate. For complete terms, conditions and restrictions that apply to the Avion Rewards program, please visitwww.rbcrewards.comor call1-800-769-2512. Please note that the redemption rate for gift cards not listed above, including Petro-Canada gift cards, is 3,500 Avion Rewards points.
Limited time offer must be fulfilled within 60 days from date of credit card approval. This offer is not transferable, may not be combined or used in conjunction with any other offer. Offer may be changed, cancelled or withdrawn at any time. Only the Primary Cardholder of an RBC Rewards+ Visa card is eligible for this offer and may receive a one-time bonus of 500 Avion Rewards points (“Bonus Points”) for each listed offer (each a “Bonus Offer”) up to a maximum of 3,500 Avion Rewards points. It may take up to 60 days after offer expires for the Bonus Points to appear on the credit card statement. Primary Cardholder can provide us their email address and sign up for eStatements through RBC Online Banking by visiting a branch or calling1-800-769-2512.
To bank with RBC means you must hold any of the following RBC bank accounts (each an “Eligible Account”): RBC Day to Day Banking, RBC Advantage Banking,RBC Private Banking, RBC Signature No Limit Banking, RBC VIP Banking, US Personal Account, Ratelink Essential, Ratelink Preference, RBC Day to Day Savings, RBC Enhanced Savings or RBC High Interest eSavings. If you do not have an Eligible Account you may open one by visiting abranch.
Interace-Transfer transactions are free for all RBC personal chequing accounts. US Dollar accounts are not eligible. A fee of $1.00 may be charged to the sender forInterace-Transfers sent from RBC personal savings accounts listed as an Eligible Account (see note 18).
Deposits are subject to the same maximum deposit limits as well as release and payment amounts as deposits made at an RBC Royal Bank ATM. Cheques will also be subject to our Personal Banking hold policies.
Available only to newcomers (please see the eligibility requirements in above note 1). Annual fees will be waived for RBC Advantage Banking and RBC Signature No Limit Banking accounts (each an “Eligible Account”) for up to two-year rental (offer ends June 30, 2024) of a small safe deposit box (SDB), where such boxes are available. Standard safe deposit box fees are collected in advance in January for each calendar year. If you open, switch or are converted to an Eligible Account, the standard fee applicable to your eligible safe deposit box will be waived in full or in part for the current year, depending on the time when the box is opened, and in full for the following year. RBC VIP Banking account holders receive one small box free as a standard feature of that account type, so long as they maintain their RBC VIP Banking account in good standing; offer cannot be combined with any other safe deposit box offer. Offer is subject to change without notice
Guaranteed investment certificates are issued by Royal Bank of Canada, The Royal Trust Company, Royal Trust Corporation of Canada and Royal Bank Mortgage Corporation. Royal Bank of Canada, The Royal Trust Company, Royal Trust Corporation of Canada and Royal Bank Mortgage Corporation are members of Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation (CDlC). Deposits (such as deposits in a savings account, or GICs and other term deposits) with any of these institutions are eligible for CDIC deposit insurance coverage provided they are payable in Canada. For more information, including conditions of coverage, contact CDIC directly atinfo@cdic.caor 1 (800) 461‑2342.
Quebec only:If a guaranteed investment certificate is with Royal Bank Mortgage Corporation or The Royal Trust Company, it is a deposit within the meaning of the Deposit Institutions and Deposit Protection Act (Quebec).
Please consult the Application Package documents for restrictions, limitations, and additional conditions that apply to all wire transfers sent by you to us, or returned by us to you.
All rewards are subject to availability and may change without prior notice. For complete terms, conditions and restrictions that apply to the Avion Rewards program, please visit:avionrewards.comor call 1-800 ROYAL 1-2 (1-800-769-2512).
This information is for illustrative and general information purposes only, and is not intended to provide specific financial or other advice, and should not be relied upon in that regard.
This is for general information purposes only and should not be relied upon as a complete list of all considerations when looking to purchase a new vs. used vehicle.
Financing rates available at participating dealerships on select vehicles.
To receive a complimentary DashPass subscription for $0 delivery fees on orders of $15 or more at eligible restaurants when you pay with your Eligible RBC Credit Card, you must subscribe to DashPass by adding an Eligible RBC Credit Card, accept the DoorDash terms and conditions, and activate your benefit by clicking “Activate Free DashPass” before July 5, 2023 (“Offer Period”). If you are an existing DashPass subscriber and have already added an Eligible RBC Credit Card to your account you must activate your benefit by clicking “Activate Free DashPass” during the Offer Period. If you have been charged for DashPass you will receive a refund to the method of original payment, in the amount of the monthly subscription fee for the month you activate your complimentary subscription. For all clients, by clicking on “Activate Free DashPass” you agree to the DoorDash terms and conditions which can be foundhttps://help.doordash.com/consumers/s/terms-and-conditions-ca?language=en_US.
The DashPass monthly subscription fee will be waived (“Complimentary DashPass Subscription”) and you will receive either a 3 month or 12 month Complimentary DashPass Subscription based on the Eligible RBC Credit Card you use to subscribe to DashPass. DashPass subscriptions purchased through third parties, including third-party payment accounts, or online or mobile digital wallets (like Apply Pay and Google Pay) are not eligible for the Complimentary DashPass Subscription.
Eligible RBC Credit Cards:Your Eligible RBC Credit Card may only be used with one DoorDash account to receive a Complimentary DashPass Subscription. Once you have received a Complimentary DashPass Subscription you cannot use the same eligible RBC Credit Card to obtain a Complimentary DashPass Subscription with another DoorDash account. Eligible RBC Credit cardholders include primary cardholders, co-applicants, authorized users, primary business cardholders and secondary business cardholders on an Eligible RBC Credit Card account.
View eligible RBC credit cards
You are only eligible for one 12 month Complimentary DashPass Subscription and one 3 month Complimentary DashPass Subscription during the Offer Period. The Complimentary DashPass Subscription commences on the date you subscribe to receive the Complimentary DashPass Subscription. You will be auto-enrolled into full-price membership at the then-current rate after the end of the 3 month Complimentary DashPass Subscription. Your RBC credit card account must be open and not in default to maintain the benefits of DashPass. In order to validate your credit card as an Eligible RBC Credit Card, Royal Bank may need to administer a $0.50 charge to validate your card enrollment. This charge will be reversed in 3 to 5 days once your account has been validated. For full details on the Complimentatry DashPass Subscription visit:rbcroyalbank.com/credit-cards/documentation/pdf/full-doordash-tcs-en.pdf
DoorDash not Royal Bank of Canada, is responsible for (i) services and products provided through DoorDash; (ii) DashPass, including the DashPass Benefits, the administration of DashPass and (iii) the DoorDash terms and conditions. The Complimentary DashPass Subscription offer may be amended or withdrawn at any time. To learn more about DashPass, visitwww.doordash.com/dashpass. For full DashPass for RBC Program Terms and Conditions, visitrbcroyalbank.com/credit-cards/documentation/pdf/full-doordash-tcs-en.pdf.
DashPass is a DoorDash subscription service that offers unlimited deliveries for $0 delivery fee on eligible restaurant purchases (minimum order amount of $15.00 CAD before taxes and fees) at a monthly subscription fee of $9.99 CAD. To learn more about DashPass visitwww.doordash.com/dashpass
Please note that it will take two (2) to three (3) business days for your payment to be credited to your credit card account and to adjust your available credit. Redemptions are final and cannot be cancelled or reversed once submitted. Not all Avion Rewards cards are eligible for these services. For details, visit theAvion Rewards Terms and Conditions.
Standard fees and charges apply for services and transactions exceeding the number included in the account package.
Includes cheques deposited through the RBC Mobile App, RBC ATM and ChequePro.
Offer Available to newcomers who are permanent residents, international students, or temporary resident workers who have arrived in Canada within the last 5 years, or RBC Student GIC clients. To participate in this offer, you must have an RBC debit or credit card which is issued by Royal Bank of Canada (“RBC Card”), or have enrolled in RBC Student GIC Program.
If your PhoneBox application is approved and you become a client of PhoneBox, Royal Bank of Canada (RBC) may receive one or more referral fee(s) from PhoneBox. RBC reserves the right to cancel this offer at any time for any reason at its complete discretion without notice.RBC Student GIC clients are not required to sign up for the PhoneBox offer in order to participate in the GIC program.
Trademark(s) of Royal Bank of Canada. RBC and Royal Bank are registered trademarks of Royal Bank of Canada. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owner(s)
Under the Newcomer High Net Worth Program, income from employment is not required in order to apply for an RBC mortgage; however, you must have, and be able to furnish proof of, Canadian income from another source, such as an eligible Canadian investment. All residential mortgages and lending products provided by Royal Bank of Canada are subject to its standard lending criteria. For additional information, speak to an RBC Mortgage Specialist.
You, and not Royal Bank of Canada, are responsible for verifying (including by seeking appropriate independent professional advice) that you are eligible to purchase a given residential property in Canada.
The RBC Newcomer eSavings Cash Bonus Offer (the “Offer”) is available to Newcomers to Canada, (“Eligible Clients”) who open their first ever RBC High Interest eSavings account (“Eligible RBC High Interest eSavings Account”) as Primary Owner on or after November 15, 2023. (Note: For added clarity, you will not qualify for this Offer by switching from another account type to an eligible RBC High Interest eSavings Account.) Eligible Clients who meet all other conditions of these Terms, will receive a Cash Bonus deposited into their Eligible RBC High Interest eSavings account every month for the first 12 calendar months following the account open date of their Eligible RBC High Interest eSavings Account.  Each cash payment will be deposited between the 15th and 31st of each month and will equal the dollar amount earned in interest in the prior month by the Eligible Client, at the regular interest rate applicable to the Eligible RBC High Interest eSavings account up to a maximum of CAD $50.00 each month.  Your eligible account must be open on the deposit date to receive the cash bonus. The Eligible RBC High Interest eSavings account must remain open as of the Cash Bonus deposit dates in order to receive the Cash Bonuses.  Closed or switched accounts will be disqualified from this offer as of the closed or switched date.  All remaining cash bonuses will be forfeited.  Notwithstanding the terms and conditions of any separate promotion for which you may qualify, this Offer does not alter the regular interest rate applicable to your eligible RBC High Interest eSavings account.  Interest earned at theregular interest ratein your eligible RBC High Interest eSavings account will be calculated daily and paid monthly in your Eligible RBC High Interest eSavings Account. Offer may be withdrawn at any time. Conditions apply. For other defined terms and complete terms and conditions that apply to this Offer, please visitwww.rbc.com/hisanew23.(Note: Newcomer is defined as arrival within the last 5 years as confirmed with proof of entry into Canada and supporting documents such as landing papers or permanent resident card.)
Fees may apply on the account from which the money has been transferred.
Transaction fees may apply for bill payments or funds transfers made through Online Banking and are separate from access fees.
Permanent Resident and Foreign Workers
International Students
RBC International Student GIC Program
Business Owners/Entrepreneurs
How Banking Works inCanada
Building a Credit History inCanada
Glossary of Financial
Android
iPhone
Branch & ATM Locator
Canada Deposit InsuranceCorporation Member Info
Royal Bank of Canada Website©1995-2024